This is just a collection of random ideas Xolroc had while working on the project.
Many of them will probably be immensely difficult to implement and/or too strange to not decimate the userbase.
Do not consider this a to do list, or even a suggestion list; it's just a collection of possibilities.
Xolroc tends to just put whatever comes to mind on here; don't take anything too seriously.
THIS IS YOUR ONLY WARNING: there may be strange and disturbing things in this file.  I am not to be held accountable for any insanity that may result from overexposure.
If there is any confusion over what some of these mean, ask me!

Add support for three legs
Add multi-arm support
multiple tails!
Add support for cocks in unusual places--replacing nipples, replacing tongues, etc
Support modularity (removable body parts, but that are still fully functional when removed and still provide sensations etc)
A 'pain to pleasure' curse, which makes it so that any pain is instead felt as sexual pleasure, leading to all attacks arousing the player and the player being unable to 
	tell how injured he/she/shi/it is.  This may also mean that characters who get too aroused while under this curse will actually mutilate themselves without realizing 
	that it's damaging.  I am, apparently, evil.
Support breasts on the back instead of just the front -- balance that back pain!
!IMPLEMENTED Taur trains--more than one taurbody! (and that's not my name for it, it's the predominant name in the furry community; I agree it's a kinda stupid name)
Add more races!  Dragons would be nice.  As would generic reptilians.  Avians!
If a cock is large enough, allow for urethral fucking
Add a way to get multi balls!
!IMPLEMENTED Add herm options to character generation (at least as gender identity) and/or to npc generation
nipplemouths!  Lipples?
Eye-nipples are a neat idea
Make it possible to remove parts too; if left with 0 eyes you're blind, if 0 mouths you can't eat and eventually starve to death, etc
Crotchhead!  Should make for very interesting sex scenes
!IMPLEMENTED multi-eyes would be nice
buyable/sellable body parts
An item that lets you steal someone else's penis and attach it to yourself, leaving the other person dickless and you with one more
	On that note, an item that lets you swap traits or swap entire bodies with someone else
for taurs: genitals between each pair of legs, rather than just the one
add viscosity value for slimes (what use?)
Hue-to-flavor mapping for slimes (possibly random flavor from a set)