The Realm of the Demons and the Origin of the Draig:
A Proposal of a New Theory to the Society of Mages
by A. Pompus Twa'at

It has long been thought that contact between this World and Seradevar began with Solomon's foolish
Summoning of the Demon Melfina, but in this Paper I shall put forward a new Theory, with Archaeological
and Cultural Evidence of Prior Contact with the Realm of the vile Demons and additionally provide 
Reasons the Reptilian Draig are to be Treated Warily.

The Race of the Draig is one of Noxico's most unusual Races, with great Variations between Individuals,
even to the point of Children who look nothing like their Parents.  There have been many Studies on the
apparent Randomness of the Appearance of the Draig, however none have been able to give Reason to the
total Lack of Similarity between even the Closest of Relatives within Draig Families.  And so I say to
You, why have We not before considered the Possibility that the Draig are Corrupt as the Vile Demons
from Seradevar are and alike to the Demons are to be not Trusted.  There is more Evidence than just 
this weak Connection, however; the Phylogeny of the Demons and that of the Draig has several Notable
Correspondances--see, for example, the Study submitted last Year by Twa'at to Your Noble Institution, 
the Non-Publishment of which I am certain is merely a Minor Oversight.  As an Example of such Evidences, 
the Draig may commonly be found to have an Ignitory Organ within their Throat, which fits Supremely with 
the Physicalities of that Vile Realm of the Demons.  Additionally, a tablet has been found near the Portal
to the Demonic Realm carrying what seems to be a Description of the Draig:

<demonfont>...and the beast continued his flexing, ignoring me altogether while fanning himself with his wings.  Never
have I met a </demonfont>(Several Lines are here Unreadable)<demonfont> his enormous testes were impossibly full, seeming to </demonfont>(Alas,
there are Again a few Lines that cannot be Read)<demonfont> and his enormous claws simply made me </demonfont>

The Remainder of the Document was not Legible, but I believe this is Undeniably a Description of a male
Draig; note the Usage of the Plural in <demonfont>testes</demonfont>, and Know that this Tablet has 
been estimated to be Fifteen Hundred Years old, in a Time when the Demon Language still made Use of the
Dual Number....

(the remainder of the document is just as dry and racist as its beginning, and the author's sources
are shaky at best.<ifplayercanreaddemonic>  Many of his arguments rely on extremely liberal translations of the demonic
language, including even basing some arguments entirely on speculation of what the language was like over
a millenium ago.</ifplayercanreaddemonic>  You wonder how much Mr. Twa'at paid to have this published, as it obviously
was not published based on its merit.)